So we set up our next config.
Now we're gonna create some pages and
what we're gonna do well,
you already saw us create one page, right?
You we already, so
far created our index page.
If we wanted to make an about page,
we would make,
we would call it about.view, we would
make sure it's in the pages directory.
We would say V base and
I could say hy from
about page.
Save that off, and then I go back.
And now if I go to localhost 3000
I'm at that index page right here.
And if I wanted to say, about.
Now I'm at the about page.
So, you can actually see
that this is routing.
We want to make a navigation though,
right?
We don't want to manually say,
about or the index page.
But this is pretty cool.
We didn't have to create a router or
anything, just simply.
By putting a new page, the new view file
inside pages, we made a brand new page.
[LAUGH] It's awesome, okay?
So now, what we wanna do is
we wanna make navigation.
So I'm gonna close out our things that
we're not working with right now.
And our config, okay?
And we're not gonna need that, all right?
So now, I'm gonna say app.
Menu.view.
And we're gonna go into the next food app.
We're gonna say components.
Here, we're gonna say the base again.
I'm gonna change this to nap.
Have, because that's kind of typical.
And then, I'm gonna say ul, li, and
nuxt has a special type of link for
when it's routing.
So you're not gonna use an a tag, where
you're gonna say is I have a snippet for
it, V next L is going to
say nuxt link to page.
So in this case, it's the homepage.
So it's just going to go that
backslash and I'm going to say home.
But I also have to say exact
because it needs to know there's
a lot of things that match this.
I think in newer versions of nuxt
it's not gonna need that anymore.
But for now, we'll just leave it.
And so you might be working with
a version that doesn't need that anymore,
cuz they said that they
were going to work on that.
So, in V nuxt l, we say about; And
then I'm gonna say about here.
And then we can come back refresh.
The server might need to,
we didn't actually add it to anything.
We need to go into the default page.
Remember I mentioned that in that default
page, that's where we can have headers and
footers and things persist.
So I don't have to add it to
the bout in the Index page
every time if I have something
that's repeated like that.
So I'm going to add in a script tag.
And I'm gonna say,
the Import Export and say app menu.
And then above this nuxt tag,
I'm going to say AppMenu.
I'm also going to put this
in a class of content.
And I'm going to put this in a div and
I'll explain why in a bit here.
Well, I'll just say its
first sticky footer.
Like I'm going to add this content and
you're in an exercise you're going to add
a footer below this and
then it will be sticky.
So if I added in that app menu,
if I go back now I can see that I have
a menu, and it persists on each page.
I don't have to add it
to the about page but
I can go on route from about to home and
back again.
Cool, so if we go back to our
to-do-list now we've created pages and
we've created a menu and we've
explained a bit what next layouts do.
So again,
they're all single file components.
We use default.view and
you can persist headers.
I did an example where I use those
persisted have headers to create
these kind of native
like animations between
pages because I'm able to persist
that state across different pages.
So if you're interested in
that I linked up the course or
they linked up the article in the demo.
If you want to learn how to do that.
You can also create new ones
we're using the default.
But let's say you had a layout of a blog.
You could totally let add in a different
layout style a little bit differently.
Maybe you have an aside that
persists on every blog page.
And you have many blog pages,
you can make that really easily.
And then inside the export defaults of
that page, you would say layout is blog.
So if you need more information
about that, that's where that lives.